# Tomato_plant_disease_detection
Here we have surveyed on papers related to deep learning in agriculture and than have implemented by classifying the disease in tomato leaves. The tomato plant is one of the major crops India produces. Though the production of Tomato has increased over the past decades, the yield per square feet is still less compared to other countries. One of the chief reason behind the low yield is the ignorance of disease detection in the plant which leads to wastage and shortage of food.We have surveyed on various papers and models and then compared and implemented it using transfer learning.

## Segmentation-
Image segmentation is the process of partitioning a digital image into multiple segments, its aim is to change the image into something that is easier to analyze. One of the approaches proposed for Image segmentation by “Normalized Cuts and Image Segmentation” is Normalized Cuts in which the image is treated as a graph with the individual pixels as the nodes and the problem is converted to a graph partitioning problem. A new criterion was introduced, the normalized cut, for the partitioning of the graph. The normalized cut measures both the total similarity within the group and the total dissimilarity between the different groups. They showed that this criterion can be optimized using an efficient computational technique used for solving a generalized eigenvalue problem. The graph partitioning is done on the basis of the degree of dissimilarity which can be calculated as the total weight of the edges that are removed to make the partition, this is called the cut value. However, this value of cut favors cutting small sets of isolated nodes in the graph. 

To overcome the bias we introduced a new measure of dissociation, the normalized cut, which computes the cut cost as a fraction of the total edge connections to all the nodes in the graph. Hence, the two partition criteria, minimizing the dissociation between the groups and maximizing the association within the group, can be achieved simultaneously. The grouping algorithm first sets up the weighted graph of an image by considering the edge values to be the measure of similarities between the two nodes, then it proceeds to find the eigenvectors for the smallest eigenvalues. The eigenvector with the second smallest eigenvalues is used to bipartition the graph, then a decision is made if this should be subdivided and recursively repartition the segmented parts.

## OTHER SURVEYED PAPERS

In another paper -”Efficient Graph-Based Image Segmentation”-it points out the problem of segmenting an image into sections and provide its solutions [8]. It talks about image segmentation, clustering, graph algorithms. This paper talks about implementing a graph method which takes into account the other non-local properties; global properties, and on the other hand are efficient too. They talk about a particular graph method where each pixel represents itself as a node in the graph while the weights on each edge are considered as a dissimilarity between the pixel. Taking this into account the segmented images are able to take into account the other “non-local” properties with an efficiency which previously researched failed to match. They give experiment the particular scenario on an image where they show how their approach to segmentation is useful and even more accurate. They use a   cut approach - cut based approach. They compare that with the results of k nearest neighbors. They conclude on saying that K nearest neighbors are more accurate than the graph-based approach. The reason they provide is that in the approach even though two pixels are far apart in the image they are positioned near to each other because of their greater similarity which is not the case in nearest neighbors and due to which nearest neighbors works efficiently.
